2/08
- spent $10 to put a chicken on a 3d guy's head
- remember all that stuff from last post. well I completely forgot about it. instead I have been playing vibeo gaem
- sometimes I say things out loud (or type them in a dm) and then look back like. oh hm that was kind of fucked up actually. "timer micromanagement game" and then I stopped playing it again. threw cash at a f2p felt weird about it thereafter. AI,
- water w/e I just spewed that. i should have talked about the COrN
- mainly it just dicks me off to see people regurgitate the same arguments that have been used against (pick your poison) digital art as a medium, surrealism/dada as a Concept, photography as a medium, etc etc But Now It's AI So It's Fine. shush. that's it that's my #take
- I've noticed that I am actually incredibly more annoyed by *written* generative text than visual tho. like I'm training people to not read me the AI summary. I don't want to touch a chatbot on principle even though I used to have ~fun with cleverbot when it was a thing. I thought that one site with the AI-generated $genreFiction was cool. but like it's a Novelty. and I like it as a novelty in Vibeo Game but it doesn't *not* give me slight hives bc like, man this could've been cool, this is/was the future of npc interaction, except *oh wait* now people are developing legitimate character AI addictions and it's all ``data`` being used to train ``data`` and feeding ``datacenters`` and so billionaires can sell things. hell on earth
- anyway I've put game down for a bit. am semi-deliberately keeping myself an entire chapter behind release and I think I should keep doing that. for my sanity. bc fomo is fake esp in f2p mmos. haven't even touched the fuckin facemaker I succumbed to downloading it for in the first place--WHICH BTW isn't even That revolutionary??? or at least I saw similar elsewhere, except that one was also by the same dev, and all of which is to say: hopital