---
layout: plaintext
title: notes on using my stuff
css: "main{font-family:times;} header{background-image:url(bg.png); background-position:center;} ::selection{background:rgba(128,128,128,.5); color:inherit;} a:hover,a:active,a:focus{color:#000;} @media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){header{background-color:#404040;} a:hover,a:active,a:focus{color:#fff;}}"
---
<!--OH ALSO mention that I prooobably have the file backed up, in case a link breaks or something, but don't count on it!! saving everything is good practice anyway-->

Page created July 23, 2022; revised (and published?) <strong style="text-transform:uppercase;font-weight:normal;">August 6</strong>. I assume most of this is a given and (at the time of writing) haven't had any issues, but figured it'd be a good idea to lay it all out anyway.

Core principle: **I can't control what you do with the work I publish**, and have little interest in chasing down people who make things I may personally find distasteful or dishonest. Mostly I don't want to get ripped off by some commercial endeavor. Internet randos "stealing" my stuff would annoy me, but I believe that's a nigh-inevitable risk of posting online, and thus won't lose sleep over it. (You're never gonna execute an idea the same way I would anyway, because we're different people <span style="display-block;">;P</span>)

## in general
These and the following terms apply to **written and visual work**, both specific pieces (e.g. a particular drawing or blog post) <em style="text-transform:uppercase;font-style:normal;">and</em> bodies of work as a whole (e.g. an entire project).

Code-wise? Eh, [it's all out there](https://github.com/a-flyleaf?tab=repositories). Fork it with impunity!

- You are **always** welcome to **link to** my work, ideally through a means that leaves credit intact (e.g. a link to a deviantArt upload page > a link to the image directly).
- **Credit me** through whatever means possible. Link preferred but plain text is fine.
	- Art made in the context of specific websites (e.g., Flight Rising, ArtFight, a deviantArt-based trade) can be credited to my handle on that website.
	- Otherwise, "a-flyleaf" or "NightAuctor" are both acceptable.
	- If you're making [transformative work](https://fanlore.org/wiki/Transformative_Work), using the work title in lieu of mine is a-OK (as in, "character from story" is less wordy than "character from story by a-flyleaf").
- optional: I probably **want to see the thing you're doing**! Reposting some old fanart (with credit)? Baller. Making something based on my own stories and/or characters? *Hell yeah.* [Get in touch!]({{site.url}}/about#contact)
	- I have personal limits but I'll let you know if they're relevant. If this comes up, treat it like a "please don't send this to me" boundary, <em style="text-transform:uppercase;font-style:normal;">not</em> "you must never do this or I will smite you."

## art I made for someone
Applies to <strong style="text-transform:uppercase;font-weight:normal;">the recipient</strong> of **commissions, gifts, trades**, and anything else I might have scribbled for a specific person. If terms were given at the time the art was received (e.g., commission thread rules), *those take priority*; otherwise, assume these as default.

- I have <strong style="text-transform:uppercase;font-weight:normal;">not</strong> given you permission to make money with my work, unless otherwise *explicitly* stated at the time of transaction.
- Otherwise? **I don't care, have fun~** Wanna put it in a moodboard? Vandalize the shit out of it? Cut it out and put it on a notebook or sticker or wherever? *Go for it, dude;* it's all yours~
	- If you're going to **heavily edit the drawing** (e.g. maybe the character design has changed since I drew it), either
		- A) credit me for the *original* work but note the edits, <em style="text-transform:uppercase;font-style:normal;">or</em>
		- B) [contact me]({{site.url}}/about#contact), because I might be willing to edit/redraw the thing *for* you <span style="display:inline-block;">;V</span> (May incur additional costs if the art was commissioned.)
- I retain the right to post the art to my own accounts/profiles, unless we've agreed otherwise. I credit as much as possible (unless, again, you prefer otherwise)!

If you were <em style="text-transform:uppercase;font-style:normal;">not</em> the recipient, treat it like you would any other art on the internet, in addition to whatever terms the recipient might have laid out. **Their preferences override mine**; e.g. *I* don't mind (credited) reposts, but if I drew someone's character, *they* might want to keep that art to personal galleries only. Please respect that!

## stuff I made for me
Applies to <strong style="text-transform:uppercase;font-weight:normal;">basically everything else</strong> I've made, ever.

- If the thing you're doing is clearly in the <em style="text-transform:uppercase;font-style:normal;">context</em> of some type of body of work, e.g. [transformative work](https://fanlore.org/wiki/Transformative_Work), you can just **note the name of the original work instead of mine**.
- I am *extremely* <abbr title="essentially: free, hands-off">laissez-faire</abbr> about anything you might want to do with or based on my stuff. *Barring commercial projects,* you can assume I'm alright with whatever you're doing.
	- Again, as noted above: stuff I *personally* don't want to see ≠ stuff I'm going to try to forbid you from making. **I wholeheartedly support your right to make stuff I wouldn't want to touch with a 500-foot pole**. Just don't make money off it, yeah?
- That said, **do not** suggest I endorse whatever you're doing unless I actually, y'know, *do*.

----

Thiiink I'm gonna let this sit unpublished for a day or two before going live :V It's a Lot to read and I haven't revised it, but also the kind of thing that should really be reread 5000 times before publication....

8/6: yeah this is very wordy, I was skimming rereading it just now. might just rewrite it from scratch...